# fss-0002

Rule Specification:
  The Rule files follow the FSS-000D (Basic Rule) format with IKI-0000 (Unrestricted IKI).

  A Rule file name is expected to have the file extension ".rule".

  For each Rule file:
    - The outer most part is a FSS-0002 (Basic List).
    - The Basic List Object is considered the "Rule Type".
    - The Basic List Content is determined by the specific "Rule Type".
    - The Content for each "Rule Type" is called the "Item".
    - Each Item Object is the "Item Name".
    - Each Item Content is either the "Action" or the "Setting".
    - Each Action Object is the "Action Name".
    - Each Action Content are the "Action Parameters".
    - Each Setting Object is the "Setting Name".
    - Each Setting Content are the "Setting Values".

  The Rule Types\:
    "command": FSS-0003 (Extended List) or FSS-0001 (Extended).
    "script": FSS-0003 (Extended List) or FSS-0001 (Extended).
    "service": FSS-0003 (Extended List) or FSS-0001 (Extended).
    "settings": (Required) FSS-0001 (Extended).

  For the above Rule Types, "settings" may be specified only once whereas the others may be specifed multiple times.
  The "settings" Rule Type is always processed first, regardless of position.
  The other Rule Types are processed top-down.

  The "settings" Rule Type has the following FSS-0001 (Extended)\:
    "capability": One Content representing capabilities.
    "control_group": Two or more Content, the first Content being either "existing" or "new" and the remaining representing a valid control group (cgroup) name, must have at least 1 graph character (non-whitespace printing character) (leading and trailing whitespace are trimmed off).
    "define": Two Content, the first Content must be a case-sensitive valid environment variable name (alpha-numeric or underscore, but no leading digits).
    "environment": Zero or more Content, each must be a case-sensitive valid environment variable name (alpha-numeric or underscore, but no leading digits).
    "group": One or more Content representing group names or group ids.
    "name": One Content, must have at least 1 graph character (non-whitespace printing character) (leading and trailing whitespace are trimmed off).
    "need": Two Content, the first being a partial path and the second being a rule file name without extension (such as "boot" "modules").
    "nice": One Content, must be a valid number for process "niceness" (Any whole number inclusively between -20 to 19).
    "parameter": Two Content, the first Content must be a case-sensitive valid IKI name and the second being an IKI value.
    "path": One Content representing a valid PATH environment string (such as "/bin:/sbin:/usr/bin").
    "scheduler": One or Two Content representing a scheduler name and the optional numeric priority (Any whole number inclusively between 0 and 99).
    "script": One Content representing a valid program name or path (such as "bash" or "/bin/bash").
    "user": One Content representing a user name or user id.
    "want": Two Content, the first being a partial path and the second being a rule file name without extension (such as "boot" "modules").
    "wish": Two Content, the first being a partial path and the second being a rule file name without extension (such as "boot" "modules").

  The "service" Rule Type allows the following the FSS-0001 (Extended)\:
    "create": One Content representing the path to a PID file.
    "kill": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "restart": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "reload": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "start": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "stop": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "use": One Content representing the path to a PID file.

  The "command" and "script" Rule Types allow the following the FSS-0001 (Extended)\:
    "kill": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "restart": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "reload": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "start": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.
    "stop": One or more Content representing a program being executed and its arguments.

  The "command" and "service" Rule Types allow the following the FSS-0003 (Extended List)\:
    "kill": A list repesenting multiple programs and their respective arguments to execute.
    "restart": A list repesenting multiple programs and their respective arguments to execute.
    "reload": A list repesenting multiple programs and their respective arguments to execute.
    "start": A list repesenting multiple programs and their respective arguments to execute.
    "stop": A list repesenting multiple programs and their respective arguments to execute.

  The "script" Rule Types allow the following the FSS-0003 (Extended List)\:
    "kill": A list repesenting the contents of a (Bash) shell script.
    "restart": A list repesenting the contents of a (Bash) shell script.
    "reload": A list repesenting the contents of a (Bash) shell script.
    "start": A list repesenting the contents of a (Bash) shell script.
    "stop": A list repesenting the contents of a (Bash) shell script.
